Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at telerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hansen. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
521. In this episode, Scott
talks with Liza gardener, CTO
of cloud four, about her
recent explorations into hardware using
the Johnny five framework. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes today. I'm talking with
Eliza Gardner she's the CTO
of cloud four, and I
recently attended a class that
she gave at a meetup
with my eight year old.
And we learned how to
talk to hardware with a
Johnny five, a JavaScript framework.
Thanks for chatting with me
today. Thanks for having me.
Yeah. So I just went
to this, this meetup and
that you, you were speaking
at and I took my
eight year old. We had
a blast. He is super
excited about doing JavaScript now
more than before, because I
think it, it entered the
physical world. Now it's not
just drawing circles on Khan
Academy anymore. Right. You can
actually have impact on things
that exist in physical space.
Yeah, that, that, I mean,
I've, I've walked him through
the Khan Academy basics of
JavaScript. He's drawn a snowman
and things like that. But,
you know, I think that
for teaching kids, the, the
physicality of it is more
compelling than the abstract, you
know, circles. Phil's sure. Yeah.
Did you know you've been
even a web person for
a long time? I think
we came up at the
same time. Yeah. About 20
years, very early web. And
I'm, I'm absolutely a software
person in background. So this
hardware tangent has been an
exciting change. Did you, did
it take JavaScript to get
you into it? Cause I
know I tried with C
a couple of times, but
never really jumped became a
hardware person. Well, there were
two things that got me
into it. The first thing
was completely by chance. I
was speaking at a conference
in England called over the
air, a great little grassroots
mobile conference that happens once
a year. And after I
was done speaking, I decided
to enter the hacking contest
that they had. The national
museum of computing in England
is located at Bletchley park,
which is where this was.
And they had a need
for some timeline management interface
software. So I whipped together
a prototype and I ended
up winning the hacking contest,
which was a great surprise
and a great honor and
the gift or the award
for doing that was a
complete Arduino starter set. And
I was traveling. So I
had a little bit of
time to just sit down
and look at it and
play with it. And I
worked through all of the
examples and this was using
the Arduino IDE and writing
in the Arduino programming language,
which is C like, and
getting through all of those
examples. But the second piece
was indeed the JavaScript piece.
So I went back to
my Arduino a few months
later and wanted to expand
what I understood about hardware
and circuitry and hacking in
the physical space. And I
was Googling one night and
it was during the holiday
season a few years ago.
And I happened upon Johnny
five. And one of the
first things I did was
put together a new example
for one of the classes
that they had something to
do with blinking multiple LEDs
or fading out between LEDs.
And I went ahead and
contributed that example, which was
rewarding and got me connected
to the Johnny five developer
community. And then I was
hooked from there on out.
I think that the JavaScript
metaphors in Johnny five helped
me connect my software background
and more intuitively to the
hardware stuff I was doing.
It allowed me to understand
things on a higher level
as well. They, the Johnny
five library wraps a lot
of components like LEDs and
different kinds of sensors and
higher level classes that I
can work with. So I
don't always have to be
in the weeds of configuring
pins or doing things with
voltages. So the combination of
the two is really powerful
for me for understanding it.
So I'm looking at the
Johnny five website. You go
Johnny hyphen five.io. And a
couple of years ago, I
had Raquel Velez. Talk to
me about this. And Johnny
five came out in 2000
and in 2012, but here
we are now four years
later and it's really very
mature. It has quite an
ecosystem built around it. I
definitely would say it is,
it is quite mature. And
for that reason, I tend
to recommend it to people
beginning with JavaScript and hardware,
because it does have a
fairly sizable community constantly banging
on it and poking at
it. And I also think
that it represents a pent
up pressure and interest in
the software and web development
community for being able to
do this and being able
to use this, this kind
of tool is a gateway
to understanding how to work
with hardware. And I think
that's really exciting. So you
talk about pins and worrying
about the little details of
voltage and things like that.
This seems like it's the
constant tension and getting involved
with, with hardware. Like I,
I go to some frameworks
and some boards, and I
feel like if I don't
have a, you know, an
oscilloscope in my garage that
maybe this isn't for me,
I do think that there's
a very fine and hard
to chase down line between
the hardware concepts, the core
fundamentals you do need to
know to be proficient versus
being in the weeds, whether
that's hardware addressing or voltages,
or like you say, feeling
like you need an oscilloscope.
And I think finding that
line is very key. And
it's one of the things
that I'm spending a lot
of time thinking about and
wanting to help educate about
corralling the true circuitry basics.
I do think you need
to know the relationships in
ohms law and some things
about basic circuitry and the
components involved, but what abstraction
libraries like Johnny five allows
you to do is put
a little bit of that
aside or put the non
essential stuff aside. So you
can prototype quickly gets out
of your way. Now what
you do lose when you
have high level obstructions, of
course, is that lower level
control. So there's always a
trade off, but this is
how it is, of course,
in computer science it's you
can use this analogy and
almost any kind of software
development, right? Yeah. I always
use that. I've said it
a million times in the
show, but I'll say it
again that, you know, each
additional layer of abstraction is
indistinguishable from magic, right. You
know, when you showed us
the Johnny five code, we
said, you know, board dot
on ready, you actually grabbed
the ready event. So like
right there, we're thinking about
inventing, which is just completely
foreign. And then you said,
led dot blink. And I'm
like, what, you know, I,
it wasn't voltage on or
this pin. It was, you
know, it was a very
nice high level layer of
abstraction. And that I think
really resonated with my, with
my son because I've been
trying to get him into
multimedias and stuff. And it's
just not miss exciting is
as diving right in and
doing something Right. It connects
language and metaphors that we're
more familiar with in our
web programming, in our Java
script programming arsenal. And it
does help make us understand.
I mean, when you see
that there's a Johnny five
class like led and that
led class has a bunch
of methods on it, they're
what you would kind of
expect intuitively if you conceive
of what an led is,
you know, you want to
turn it off, you want
to turn it on. You
want to make it blink.
You want to make it
fade in or fade out,
or maybe you want to
set it to a different
brightness. And even further than
that, there's an, an RGB
variant of the led class
that lets you set the
color on a, on an
RGB led. And you can
use that. You can set
that color using, for example,
a hex color, which is
very natural way of thinking
about colors for web developers.
Right. Totally, totally good example.
The question I would have
then as someone who like,
I want to be productive
and I want to learn,
like you said, the basics,
but like let's talk about
fading for example. Sure. Do
I, do I dig into
pulse with modulation and then
learn all about it and
make it so I could
write my own fade and
then except that there's a
fade and then, you know,
from that point I'll live
at the high level of
abstraction or do I just
simply, you know, read a
paragraph or two, get a
general sense of what pulse
was modulation is, which is
where I'm at right now.
I, that the latter is
probably Probably find so the,
if you have a general
understanding of how pulse width
modulation works and they under,
and an understanding of duty
cycles, I think that that
is probably plenty. Do you
need to go write an
algorithm for pulse, with modulation
to be able to say
that you understand it? I
don't think that that's necessarily
the case. So I think
there are some shortcuts you
can take that are not
detrimental to your understanding of
hardware. Okay. So that's actually,
PWM is actually a really
interesting thing we should talk
about for a second. So
you go from led dot
blink, and then you talk
about fading. There's different kinds
of pins. I understand a
different pen support, different things
on an Arduino. Yeah. So
we're specifically speaking about an
Arduino UNO, which is the
most popular Arduino development board,
but pretty much any Arduino
development board you'll get has
some pins that are capable
of digital input and output.
And some of those digital
pins will be able to
support PWM, not usually all
of them and what a
normal digital pin that does
not support PWM is either
on or it's off or
more specifically it's high or
it's low. What PWM gives
you is the ability to
alternate between the high and
low values on that pin.
Very, very fast. And it
very specific ratios. So you
might have something that's 50%
on or off using PWM,
using what they call a
duty cycle, which is as
you look across a period,
what's the average amount of
time that that signal is
high versus the amount of
time it's low. And that
way you can sort of
approximate what feels kind of
like an analog output, because
you have something that's on
50% of the time, it
over time, the average effect
is that that is half
voltage or that's how it
looks to us in the
real world. Cause we can't
see things at that frequency
of course. So when it
comes to LEDs specifically, a
PWM enabled pin will let
you set an led so
that it looks like it's
50% bright. You can't do
that with a regular digital
pen because it's either on
or it's off. So anytime
you want to fade or
do different colors with a,
an RGB led, you'll need
to use one of those
pins. Interesting. Okay. So forgive
my ignorance, but is it
kind of like you're strobing
it like a strobe light
and the average, it is
average 50% on 50% off
over this period of time.
Right. So if you look
at it, if you were
to look at sort of
an oscilloscope sort of output
of that, what you would
see is up, down, up,
down, up, down with, it
would stay up a given
amount of time and then
come down and stay down.
So it would look kind
of like teeth, I guess.
Yeah. Yeah. Is that what
they say? Like a saw
tooth pattern, except it doesn't
have a point at the
top. It is flat Flat
teeth or like crenelated like
a castle. Oh, good use
of crenelated you're welcome. Nicely
done. Yeah. You've cut the
vocab. That intimidating vocab. No,
no. I mean, in the
best way, I was actually
talking to my eight year
old about that because I
hear I am not eight
and every, every three or
four days, there's a word
that I'll hear that it's
like tickles the nerves, the
neurons in the back of
my brain where it's like,
Oh, I haven't heard that
word in 15 years. And
I don't really know exactly
what it means. So I
put it on my list
of words to look up
and he thinks it's so
funny. Cause he just assumed
that adults know all words
and have them available at
all times. So the goal
of course is to have
the correct word for the
correct thing available when you
need it in your, you
know, in your bat belt.
Right. And there's a difference
between passive vocabulary and active
vocabulary. Like we understand a
lot more words than we
have immediately available for us
to use in sentences. Yeah.
I'm working on getting my,
my vocabulary more better, More
better. Your vocabulary is so
bad. It's like a whatever.
Yeah. That's exactly what it's
like. It's so descriptive. Yeah.
Anyway, so there's microcomputers microcontrollers
and then I've also heard
this term SOC or system.
Oh goodness. Let me see
if I can do this
without confusing the matter, even
further because the lines are
quite blurry. So the definition
of what makes a microcontroller
is that it is a
single package that contains a
processor, some memory and some
ability to handle IO input
and output. And that should
all be in one package.
Okay. So in that definition,
most microcontrollers, I believe can
also be called systems on
a chip because a system
on a chip is multiple
functionality wrapped in a single
package. Right? So there's a
lot of crossover there. The
other thing that's confusing is
that a micro controller meets
the criteria of being a
microcomputer because a microcomputer needs
a processor like a system
bus and memory, I think.
Right. And I might be
having, I might have these
slightly off. So, so every
micro controller is in effect
a tiny computer as well.
And then a microprocessor on
its own is, is just
the processor without the IO
and the memory. Right. But
I don't even know if
that's strictly correct in terms
of how these microprocessors ended
up getting packaged. So it
becomes very difficult to draw
a clean line between what
we intuitively kind of feel
about a development boards like
our do winos with their
microcontrollers as being low power
hardware. That's fairly basic. For
example, the Arduino UNOS at
mega micro controller is an
eight bit micro controller. The
processor on it, processes messages
and eight bits. And we
just intuitively know that that's
a separate class of computing
as it were than what
is going on with the
raspberry PI on, on what
is sometimes termed a single
board computer. And those are
really like shot down motherboards
when you get down to
it, it has everything on
it. You would expect from
a multipurpose computer. So also
the ability to process input
and output with peripherals, perhaps
more removable storage and more
networking. And, and so the
differences are subtle, but we
kind of Intuit them almost
more than academically. They are
subdivided. So you've got your,
your microcontroller based boards, 10
to perform single purpose tasks.
That's what they're made for.
They're very robust for that.
Whereas with the single board
computers, because they're, they can
run , they can do
many tasks at once. So
they're, they're more multipurpose like
what we think of as
a computer. Yeah. I appreciate
that you point out that
there is the, like the
actual definition and then there's
what we Intuit or what
feels natural. Right. Because I
feel if it has an
O S and I can
move my mouse around and
I could open up something
that looks like file management,
that's probably a computer. And
if it's on tiny computer,
then maybe I'll call it
a microcomputer. That's certainly not.
Technically what's both, it's both
technically correct, but it's an
overload, Right? Our terminology actually
trips us up because there's
simultaneously lay people for lack
of better word, quote, unquote,
incorrectly using terminology. But then
again, the actual accurate terminology
is fraught with difficulty to
and over precise. And also
in many cases was invented
a few decades ago when
the entire competing landscape was
just completely different. Right. You
know, one of the things
that I think is so
interesting is that what we
now think of in call
them a microcontroller, like an
ATmega is effectively what I
had 25 years ago as
my first computer, you know,
like here we have like
16 megahertz frequency CPU, you
know, with 128 K of,
of, of memory 32 K
on the Arduinos microcontroller. Yeah.
And this is what like
$8 There. Well, I think
you can get an ATmega
three 28 P which is
the microcontroller on an UNO
for three or four bucks
actually. Well, if you're at
scale, it's considerably cheaper than
that. I recently built my
own UNO compatible board on
a, on a bread board.
So I just bought the
microcontroller and the timing chip
and a few other bits
and bots separately and built
it myself and the actual
components. And these are bought
individually. So there's no economy
of scale. I think we're
probably seven or eight bucks
that the expensive piece was
actually, I had to get
an what's called an FTI
programmer to be because I
didn't have all of the
hardware that you get on
an Arduino board to make
it so you can just
plug USB into it. So
I had to get one
specialty piece of hardware to
be able to program it,
but that's reusable on any
board that I would have,
but that did cost $15.
So my first board costs
me probably 20, $25 to
make. But if I made
another one, it would be
five to $8. I actually
had to take out a
loan in like 1989 and
buy a computer that was
similarly powered. And it was
a couple thousand dollars. I
have a great memory actually
at about that. I think
in 1989, my mom invested
a bunch in buying components
from the JDR micro devices
catalog. I don't know if
you remember that. So, and
there was an article in
PC magazine. I can, I
can find you a copy
about me building that at
age 10 or 11. Yeah.
And it was such a
great, and it is such
a great experience. It was
the Intel 80, 88 processor
at that time. Okay. Well,
we have to find that
and put that in the
show notes. I do have
a copy of it. It
has to be like, t-shirts
need to be made. So
you made an Arduino on
a breadboard. So that sounds
like a fun and intimidating
thing to do. Is that
something that's hard? No, not
at all. So there's, there's
some good tutorials on the
internet blogposts style things. It
took me maybe an hour,
hour and a half. And
that was completely just like
really, Oh, it was completely
just the finicky bits of
like cutting the wires to
the right lengths and stuff.
I mean, it was actually
made it look nice. I
wouldn't go so far as
to say nice, but just
so there weren't loops of
jumper cables everywhere, jumper, wires,
everywhere. So I think the
number of components you actually
need is 10 or a
dozen, maybe. I mean, there's
a couple LEDs you plug
in for to see status
and, and then you need
to have connections to a
few things, but the, the
bits are really the microcontroller,
the timing chip, and then
just some status lights and
making sure that you can
give it power. That's at
an appropriate voltage. It's, it's
astonishingly simple because really what
you get when you get
an Arduino UNO board, what
that gives you is actually
the ergonomic factor that the
form factor is actually a
large part of it. It's
breaking out. It's providing those
pins that you can plug
into with, with wires that
wire directly to those corresponding
pins on the microcontroller, but
it's not actually adding a
whole lot of extra functionality.
And then it gives you
that USB connection, which is,
which is handy and an
onboard reset button. I did
put a reset button also
on my breadboard version, but
there's really the advantage of
having the developer board and
having an Arduino compatible board
is that they are of
a fixed in specific size
and shape. And that way
you can extend them with
and other things that are
built at those same dimensions.
So that's a large part
of what the boards, Right.
And it looks like I'm
looking at the list here,
like the magic or like
the hardest part of this,
or the most advanced part
is that USB to serial
breakout board that does the
work that, that does work
for you, that would be
tedious otherwise. Yes. So I
use an FTI one, which
I think does plug into
my USB port on my
computer. And then that just
works. I can program it
through the Arduino ID. I
haven't actually tried to run
Johnny five code on that.
I haven't flashed it with
fermata. That is, and we
can talk about fermata and
a bit to try that,
but I don't see any
reason it wouldn't work just
like my other. No, since
it does, when I use
it with the Arduino ID,
That's a, that's a great,
a great segue. So after
you've built this, whether you
buy a Nuno or you
have like, I've got about
six different Arduinos and they're
all different flavors, they're wonderful.
They are literally like candy
bars and there's fun size
and there's jumbo size. I've
got little ones that are
the size of my thumb
and I've got big ones
that are size of a
deck of cards. Right. You
have to, they come with
like the default just works.
They're boot loaded with appropriate
thing. The one that you
built on a breadboard, you
would need to kind of
kickstart. Right. I actually bought
the microcontroller that I bought,
came with the bootloader already
on it. So that was
very helpful. Cool. Okay. Let's
save you time. Now this
speaks, like you said, a,
a C like language. So
yes, typically at the Arduino
workflow is that you use
the Arduino IDE software, which
does work across platforms, windows,
Mac, Linux, it's free. You
download it, you write code
in it. And the Arduino
programming language does look and
feel like C or C
plus plus minus a few
types. And also with the
addition of a number of
built in functions that are
specific to working with the
hardware setting pins high or
low or configuring pins in
certain ways. So you write
that what they call a
sketch in the Arduino IDE,
and then you compile and
upload that to the microcontroller
on the board. You plug
your board into USB and
it does compile it. So
there's a step between it,
it compiles it into machine
code that is understandable by
the ATmega controllers, which are
an AVR architecture. So it
makes it, it compiles it
and then sticks it on
the device. And then once
it's on the microcontroller and
on the board, it is
the firmware of the board,
which means that it is
stored in non-volatile program memory
rom as it were. So
when the board loses power,
that for more stays there,
it doesn't go away as
it would if it were
in volatile memory like Ram.
So there's flash flash memory
on the, on those microcontrollers
that these programs sit in.
And once they're in firmware,
that board is then independent.
So you could go plug
it in or give it
battery power somewhere else. And
it would still still do
its bidding that you uploaded
from the Ardwino ID. Now,
if you do want to
use something like Johnny five
and use no to control,
what's going on on the
board, it's a different, it's
a different configuration, a different
relationship. So what you end
up doing is preparing the
board so that it can
speak in a common API,
that you can then write
code on your computer to
speak to it as well.
So there's this API that
sits between the microcontroller and
your JavaScript as it, as
it ends up being logic.
So what you first need
to do is prepare the
board to be what's called
a client in this host
client configuration, the board will
become a client and we'll
listen and take instructions. So
the way that you get
that to work is that
instead of uploading a sketch
from the Arduino IDE, that
does a specific thing, like
make an led blink, or
make some noise. You upload
a sketch that represents something
called fermata, which is a
protocol that can serve as
this common API it's based
on MITIE. And so you,
you, you open that sketch
in the Arduino IDE, and
you upload it to the
board. That sounds a little
bit complicated, but fortunately, this
is common enough that they
are doing an IDE comes
with the fermata sketches that
you need. So you can
just open it within the
Arduino IDE standard for Mazda
is where I usually start.
And you can then upload
that to the board, just
like any sketch once that's
there. The fermata protocol is
now in the firmware. All
right. So that's step one.
You've now made the board,
the client now to program
it, to do something, you
can install the Johnny five
note framework, and then you
can start writing code in
JavaScript for that. No backup.
So you install the Johnny
five node framework on your
main laptop on top, not
on the device. So once
you put from auto on
the Arduino, it's now the,
the submissive and this relationship
and its job is to
just do what it's told
over the, does it, does
it think anymore? I mean,
does it, It thinks in
the sense that it's processing
input and output from its
pins, right? So it's, it's
taking that. And with the
firmware that it has on
board, it's translating those messages
into that, into that common
protocol, but it's not doing
anything on it. It, it
doesn't have any, it has
no purpose on its own.
It's, it's, it's sitting there
waiting to execute what it's
told to do at this
point. So it's purpose is
to pick up the inputs
and the outputs and express
them back up the chain
in this fermata protocol. And
then the, the brain, the
thinking happens elsewhere Primarily. Yes.
So once you have the
fermata sketch, uploaded to the,
the board, you can, you
don't, you don't work out
of the Arduino IDE anymore,
so you could have quit
out of that. And then
you move into your text
editor and you start writing
Java script code using the
Johnny five framework and it's
classes and objects. So you
use whatever editor makes you
happy node. Can I use
any node library at that
point? You would use Johnny.
So you would, you would
install the Johnny Johnny five
note packet, Right. But if
I wanted to bring in
other help, You sure could.
So that's what we'd come
back to that. But that's
one of the things that's
powerful about this approach. So
you write your JavaScript and
then you execute it using
node with your board plugged
in over USB. It's pretty
well obstructed. So you don't
have to do like configuration
or anything. It generally defines
your board. And then the,
the instructions are executed on
your host, computer, your laptop,
or whatever. And that's communicated
constantly to the board back
and forth. And then, so
the board can then do
your bidding. Now, the difference
between that and the, the
traditional as it were, are
doing a workflow, is that
because the client is now
dependent on the host to
tell it what to do.
If you were to unplug
the board, it would not
be, it would not be
independent that that code would
sort of go away. So
once you plug it back
in, it wouldn't start executing
that code again, because the
code actually exists on the
host. So for this co
host client configuration to work
for things to be functioning,
the host has to be
con continually executing the code
and communicating that The client
does it. If you pulled
the cable out, does it
keep doing what you told
it or does it simply
stop? It will freeze and
exactly where the last instruction
it receives. So say you
had a Johnny five script
that was toggling a bunch
of LEDs and turning a
red one on and turning
a green one on, and
you unplugged it. It, it
might be in a state
where the green ones on
it might be in a
state where the red ones
on. It just depends on
when you unplugged it. So
you might end up with
just a permanently on green
led until the board loses
power. If the board loses
power, it'll stop doing anything.
And when you plug it
back in, it will do
nothing. Okay. So if I'm
going to build something like
this, I'm always going to
need this. Who is that
a host client, or what
is the server client? I
call it host client, but
it's sort of a loose
terminology. If I were to
make a robot, I would
need, I would have, I'm
really using the Arduino, not
as the brain anymore, but
as one of my arms,
Right, it's sort of receiving
instructions and doing what it's
told and it doesn't have
to be over USB, like
physically connected. There are ways
to, there are different Arduino
compatible boards and other boards
that have wifi or Bluetooth
capability. So these instructions can
be transmitted in different ways,
but they do have, the
client does need to be
consistently told what to do.
The other combination you can
use with this setup is
say, you have a raspberry
PI or another single board
computer that's robust enough to
run an OSTP and, and,
and run node. Also, you
can run Johnny five on
that single board computer and
use it to control either
its own IO pins or
the, or another connected development
board like in Arduino. And
so that can feel like
a more independent setup. Interesting.
So that, let's just talk
about that for just second,
because you said that you
can have Johnny five and
node running on the raspberry
PI and it could control
its own GPIO ports, maybe
a little bit less stuff
going on than an Arduino,
or it could control an
Arduino itself. And that would
be a totally okay thing
to do. It's a, it's
reasonable to have a raspberry
PI talking to an Arduino,
right. That, that opens things
up a lot, because then
at that point you can
run the whole thing off
a cell phone battery, or
any kind of portable, like
a, I've got a battery
that I use to, you
know, a backup battery for
my cell phone that puts
out micro USB five volts.
That could be a reasonable
couple hours power. Yeah. The,
the highest power requirement on
any of the pie models
is four Watts or something.
So I think, yeah, Interesting.
So if someone were going
to get started, they go
to Johnny hyphen five.io in,
do you think that the
Ardwino UNO is just like
the default, that's the best
way to get started? One
of the easiest ways to
do it, it's just so
ubiquitous and so well supported.
And so widely used that.
I think it's a great
beginner's device because it doesn't
tend to pull any surprises
on you. And it's quite
compatible with things. What is
the spark fund red board?
I've seen that a lot.
They're really nice. They have
red boards instead of green,
and there's a lot of
great stuff at spark fund.
Is that a different device?
Gosh, so I know that
they have a red board
that is a clone of
a proton. I think they
also, I can't recall offhand
if spark fund has their
own Arduino clones. That brings
up an interesting question though.
Isn't there. Do I have
to pick a certain Arduino
to make sure that I'm
supporting open source or is
there some kind of a
thing going on there? All
our do we knows should,
should be open source, open
hardware, as well as open
software. There has been a
problem in the past with
counterfeit Arduino, which is kind
of confusing when you think
about it. Cause like how
can you counterfeit something that's
opensource? But it comes down
to a trademarking thing I
think with Arduino is a
trademark. So the actual boards
that say Arduino on them
and have the little Arduino
logo and stuff. Those are
actually made by Arduino in
Italy, except for the counterfeit
ones, which aren't, and that's
where that comes up. But
there are other companies that
do produce our Duino compatible
boards. They just can't market
them as Arduino specifically. So
there's, there's a few other
names for Arduino boards that
aren't exactly Arduinos, but they're
not infringing on anything. And
they just can't use the
Arduino dirt. But if I
picked boards that I find
as I'm exploring the Chinese
Johnny five website, I'll probably
be saying, yes, Yes, the
Johnny fine website has a
whole section on which boards
are supported. And of those
boards that are supported, what
you can do, which features
are supported and certain ones
can't do like certain kinds
of serial communication or something.
So they have these nice
tables that show you exactly
which words support, what, which
is handy. Yeah, it is
pretty fantastic. It is one
of the nicest open source
websites I've ever seen. And
not only does it, we've
talked about Arduino specifically, but
there's particles and light boop
blight, blue bean is a
cool one. The particle photon,
Bluetooth board rape. Yeah. So
there's lots of stuff. So
if you're a maker, you
might have one of these
lying around. You may not
have to buy anything to
start using Johnny, Correct? Yes.
It were something. So we
can get the code from
the presentation that you gave
up@yourgithubatgithub.com slash Eliza danger. And
you've got a Johnny five
hardware hacking a section with
the samples and would it
be okay if I use
that? If I gave a
talk somewhere It's I think
I threw an MIT license
in there. So you should
be fine. Yep. With attribution
always. Yeah. Well, thanks so
much for chatting with me
today. I've had a great
time. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.
.